---
date: 2020-08-13 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 26 SARS-CoV-2 contextual data specification for open genomic epidemiology
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
We talk to Dr Emma Griffiths (UBC), Dr Ruth Timme (FDA) and Dr Duncan
MacCannell (CDC) about the PHA4GE SARS-CoV-2 contextual data
specification for open genomic epidemiology.  Paper:
https://www.preprints.org/manuscript/202008.0220/v1  Specification:
https://github.com/pha4ge/SARS-CoV-2-Contextual-Data-Specification
Protocols: https://www.protocols.io/workspaces/pha4ge  The Public
Health Alliance for Genomic Epidemiology (PHA4GE) (https://pha4ge.org)
is a global coalition that is actively working to establish consensus
standards, document and share best practices, improve the availability
of critical bioinformatic tools and resources, and advocate for
greater openness, interoperability, accessibility and reproducibility
in public health microbial bioinformatics. In the face of the current
pandemic, PHA4GE has identified a clear and present need for a fit-
for-purpose, open source SARS-CoV-2 contextual data standard. As such,
we have developed an extension to the INSDC pathogen package,
providing a SARS-CoV-2 contextual data specification based on
harmonisable, publicly available, community standards. The
specification is implementable via a collection template, as well as
an array of protocols and tools to support the harmonisation and
submission of sequence data and contextual information to public
repositories. Well-structured, rich contextual data adds value,
promotes reuse, and enables aggregation and integration of disparate
data sets. Adoption of the proposed standard and practices will better
enable interoperability between datasets and systems, improve the
consistency and utility of generated data, and ultimately facilitate
novel insights and discoveries in SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19.

<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/870812257&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe><div style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc;line-break: anywhere;word-break: normal;overflow: hidden;white-space: nowrap;text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif;font-weight: 100;"><a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie" title="Micro Binfie Podcast" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">Micro Binfie Podcast</a> Â· <a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/40-a-crash-course-in-sars-cov-2-bioinformatics" title="26 SARS-CoV-2 contextual data specification for open genomic epidemiology" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">40 A crash course in SARS-CoV-2 bioinformatics</a></div>
