---
date: 2020-10-01 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 31 Large scale sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 genomes from one region
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
We chat to Justin O'Grady, Andrew Page and Alison Mather about how
they went about sequencing 1500 SARS-CoV-2 genomes from one small
region in the UK (Norfolk), and how they went about using the data for
genomic epidemiology to help get a detailed, near real-time view of
the pandemic as it unfolded.  Some of the key points are that in
Norfolk and surrounding regions:  100 distinct UK lineages were
identified. 16 UK lineages found in key workers were not observed in
patients or in community care.  172 genomes from SARS-CoV-2 positive
samples sequenced per 100,000 population representing 42.6% of all
positive cases. SARS-CoV-2 genomes from 1035 cases sequenced to a high
quality. Only 5 countries, out of 103, have sequenced more SARS-CoV-2
genomes than have been sequenced in Norfolk for this paper. Samples
covered the entire first wave, March to August 2020. Stable
evolutionary rate of 2 SNPs per month. D614G mutation is the dominant
genotype and associated with increased transmission. No evidence of
reinfection in 42 cases with longitudinal samples. WGS identified a
sublineage associated with care facilities. WGS ruled out nosocomial
outbreaks.  Rapid WGS confirmed the relatedness of cases from an
outbreak at a food processing facility.  The manuscript is available
from: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.09.28.20201475v1

<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/901142494&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe><div style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc;line-break: anywhere;word-break: normal;overflow: hidden;white-space: nowrap;text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif;font-weight: 100;"><a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie" title="Micro Binfie Podcast" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">Micro Binfie Podcast</a> Â· <a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/40-a-crash-course-in-sars-cov-2-bioinformatics" title="31 Large scale sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 genomes from one region" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">40 A crash course in SARS-CoV-2 bioinformatics</a></div>
