---
date: 2021-01-20 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 42 Overcoming barriers to SARS-CoV-2 data analysis
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
ARTICnetwork & CLIMB-BIG-DATA present a panel discussion on overcoming
barriers to SARS-CoV-2 data analysis with Nick Loman and Will Rowe
from the University of Birmingham, Áine O'Toole from the University of
Edinburgh, Andrew Page from the Quadram Institute and Anna Price from
MRC CLIMB and Cardiff University. This was part of a workshop on
COVID-19 data analysis.  Topics covered: Collecting sample metadata
intrapatient variability Building bridges with policy makers to start
sequencing Data sharing Improving bioinformatics skills Pipeline and
software validation Bioinformatics reproducibility and quality
Papers: The PHA4GE SARS-CoV-2 Contextual Data Specification for Open
Genomic Epidemiology
https://www.preprints.org/manuscript/202008.0220/v1 MAJORA: Continuous
integration supporting decentralised sequencing for SARS-CoV-2 genomic
surveillance
https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.10.06.328328v1 Genomic
sequencing of SARS-CoV-2: a guide to implementation for maximum impact
on public health https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240018440
Resources: https://www.climb.ac.uk/artic-and-climb-big-data-joint-
workshop/ https://github.com/SamStudio8/majora
https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/majora
https://github.com/pha4ge/SARS-CoV-2-Contextual-Data-Specification
https://pha4ge.org/  Software: https://github.com/cov-
lineages/pangolin https://github.com/artic-network/civet
https://github.com/COG-UK/grapevine https://github.com/cov-
lineages/pangoLEARN

<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/968019349&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe><div style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc;line-break: anywhere;word-break: normal;overflow: hidden;white-space: nowrap;text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif;font-weight: 100;"><a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie" title="Micro Binfie Podcast" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">Micro Binfie Podcast</a> · <a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/40-a-crash-course-in-sars-cov-2-bioinformatics" title="42 Overcoming barriers to SARS-CoV-2 data analysis" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">40 A crash course in SARS-CoV-2 bioinformatics</a></div>
