---
date: 2021-02-04 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 45 Software deep dive: Enterobase
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
We chat with Nabil about EnteroBase, and learn about the background to
the project, the general benefits of the platforms and some of the
strange quirks users might encounter. EnteroBase is an integrated
software environment that supports the identification of global
population structures within several bacterial genera that include
pathogens.   Papers: Mentioned PLOS genetics paper: Alikhan et al.
(2018) A genomic overview of the population structure of Salmonella.
PLoS Genet 14 (4): e1007261
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1007261 Paper describing
Enterobase and the genome fishing expeditions: Zhou et al. (2020) The
EnteroBase user's guide, with case studies on Salmonella
transmissions, Yersinia pestis phylogeny and Escherichia core genomic
diversity. Genome Res. 30:138-152.
https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.251678.119  rMLST is described in: Jolley
et al. 2012 Microbiology 158:1005-15.
https://doi.org/10.1099/mic.0.055459-0 Resources Enterobase:
http://enterobase.warwick.ac.uk/ PubMLST https://pubmlst.org/  About
EnteroBase schemes:
https://enterobase.readthedocs.io/en/latest/enterobase-
tutorials/deeper-lineages.html Software: Enterobase toolkit and
background software: https://github.com/zheminzhou/EToKi   Errata.
Jay Hinton’s Salmonella is a ST313 (D23580), not ST131 (I always mix
the numbers up -- Nabil)

<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/911118157&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe><div style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc;line-break: anywhere;word-break: normal;overflow: hidden;white-space: nowrap;text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif;font-weight: 100;"><a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie" title="Micro Binfie Podcast" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">Micro Binfie Podcast</a> · <a href="https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/40-a-crash-course-in-sars-cov-2-bioinformatics" title="45 Software deep dive: Enterobase" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">40 A crash course in SARS-CoV-2 bioinformatics</a></div>
