---
date: 2022-06-23 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 85 Breaking the dogma with bioinformatics
link: https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/85-breaking-the-dogma-with-bioinformatics
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
We are joined again by Prof Mark Pallen who takes us through his early
experiences in high-throughput microbial genomics. Mark was pleased
that he persuaded Nick Loman to join him in Birmingham. Mark tells us
how they worked with George Weinstock to perform the first genome
sequence analyses of Gram-negatives for genomic epidemiologyâ€”in this
case of multi-drug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii.   After winning
an Ion Torrent sequencer in a competition, Mark and Nick then
contributed some pioneering genomic analyses of the German STEC
outbreak. One of their studies involved crowd sourced approaches,
primed by Twitter and was published in the New England Journal of
Medicine; the other provided a performance comparison of newly
launched bench top sequencing platforms. Mark, Lee and Nabil discuss
how this outbreak overturned dogmas concerning the archetypal status
of pathotypes of E. coli. The conversation then moves on to the need
for evidence trails and challenging assumptions, whether annotating
proteins or quoting Darwin (see
https://colinpurrington.com/2012/02/darwin-on-the-floor-lhao/). Nabil
recalls the excitement of realtime analysis of an epidemic and
acknowledges the legacy of Mark and Nick's work in 2011 to current
approaches to the Covid pandemic.  Mark describes his exciting
experiences exploiting metagenomics in clinical and ancient DNA
contexts, including analysis of disease-associated stool samples and
of 200-year TB genomes in Hungarian mummies. Yet again this led to
overturning of assumptions--in this case that people only get infected
with a single strain of M. tuberculosis. It turns out that multiple
infections were the norm 200 years ago.   Shortly afterwards, Pallen
helped assemble a team that analysed undersea sediments shedding light
on the Neolithic transition in England and culminating in a Science
paper. Mark then takes us through his recent metagenomics analyses of
critically ill patients and of the chicken gut, emphasising the
excitement of finding hundreds of new species in such a commonplace
setting. Mark finishes off by sharing his excitement that there is
still so much of the microbial world left for us to discover using
sequencing and bioinformatics analyses. We are just 2% of the way
there!

