---
date: 2019-10-03 00:00:00
title: MicroBinfie Podcast, 02 What bioinformatics software not to write part 2
link: https://soundcloud.com/microbinfie/what-software-not-to-write
tags:
  - microbinfie
  - podcast
---
In this episode we identify areas of “Peak-bioinformatics”. There are
a lot of existing bioinformatics software out there - more often than
not the new tool you want to write already exists or a new tool cannot
effectively improve. We discuss this in terms of metagenomics and anti
microbial resistance.   Question and comments? microbinfie@gmail.com
SHOW NOTES Generally, novel software is not needed if: There are a
plethora of existing tools The problem is more or less solved or its
been shown to be unsolvable The underlying technology or problem is
now obsolete and/or superceded by other methods.  Metagenomics
Taxonomic classification: Megan, Kraken, SIGMA, MIDAS, metaphlan2,
mOTUs.  Assemblers: MetaSpades, metaflye,MEGAHIT, MetaVelvet, a lot of
single isolate assemblers have been tweaked to run on metagenomes.
https://github.com/lskatz/Kalamari AMR
https://github.com/arpcard/amr_curation https://food-safety-
bioinformatics-hackathon.github.io/AMR-protocols/ ABRICATE
https://github.com/tseemann/abricate  ARIBA
https://www.sanger.ac.uk/science/tools/ariba  Too many detection
tools: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18XGWpDiaE249qQKDAL7gdBC
ka0Z1drpA_s3FElfMJe0/edit#gid=0  Microbial Bioinformatics is a rapidly
changing field marrying computer science and microbiology. Join us as
we share some tips and tricks we've learnt over the years. If you're
student just getting to grips to the field, or someone who just wants
to keep tabs on the latest and greatest - this podcast is for you.
The hosts are Dr. Lee Katz from the Centres for Disease Control and
Prevention (US), Dr. Nabil-Fareed Alikhan and Dr. Andrew Page both
from Quadram Institute Bioscience (UK) and bring together years of
experience in microbial bioinformatics.  The opinions expressed here
are our own and do not necessarily reflect the views of Centres for
Disease Control and Prevention or Quadram Institute Bioscience.  Intro
music : Werq - Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed under Creative
Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/  Outro music : Scheming
Weasel (faster version) - Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com) Licensed
under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

