---
title: BRIG in Action
date: 2011-08-23
tags:
  - BRIG
  - software
  - Posts
---
These are some of my favourite [BRIG]() figures from recent Open Access
publications. They are all really amazing and go far beyond what I
thought was possible with the tool. I did not make these figures; all
credit (and kudos) belong to the respective authors.

!["Visualization of the reads selected for each strain mapped onto the
S. pyogenes MGAS6180 reference genome. The innermost circles represent
the GC content (black), GC skew (purple/green), and rRNA operons of
MGAS6180 (pink boxes). BRIG (1) shows the distribution of the number of
reads for each individual strain mapped onto the central reference using
a window size of 500, arranged from inner to outer colored circles as
follows: resequenced reference MGAS6180 (pink), PS001 (yellow), PS006
(orange), PS005 (red), PS007 (maroon), and PS008 (purple). Additional
strain-specific regions of difference (RODs) (Ï•PS008 and ICESpPS008) are
represented as insertions. The outermost circle represents previously
reported regions of difference in MGAS6180, namely, prophage elements
6180.1 and 6180.2, prophage remnants 6180.3 and 6180.4, and regions of
difference 6180.RD1 and 6180.RD2 (15)
(black)."](%7Cfilename%7C/images/BenZakouretal.jpg)

From [Ben Zakour et al.]() (2012) 'Analysis of a Streptococcus pyogenes
Puerperal Sepsis Cluster by Use of Whole-Genome Sequencing', J. Clin.
Microbiol 50(7). doi: 10.1128/JCM.00675-12

!["Distribution of CU fimbrial gene clusters among E. coli pathotypes.
The inner ring represents the concatenated nucleotide sequences of the
38 fimbrial operons. Each segment is labelled in the outer ring
according to the name and clade \[3\] of the corresponding fimbrial
usher type with the intervening 36 rings displaying the presence of
intact CU fimbrial gene clusters in each of the strains analysed. The
legend on the right lists the colour of each strain that we included in
our study, grouped according to pathogenicity class. Circular comparison
was generated using BLAST ring image generator (BRIG) \[69\]. 1CFT073
contains two copies of the P fimbriae
operon."](%7Cfilename%7C/images/Wurpeletal.png)

From [Wurpel et al.]() (2013) 'Chaperone-Usher Fimbriae of Escherichia
coli.', PLoS ONE 8(1): e52835. <doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0052835>

!["BlastP comparison of the Janthinobacterium sp. HH01 genome compared
against genomes of closely related species. The innermost rings indicate
the GC content (black) and GC skew (purple/green). The outer rings
represent the genomes of the following microbes in different colorings:
Janthinobacterium sp. Marseille, blue; Janthinobacterium sp. PAMC 25724,
red; Janthinobacterium sp. GC3, green; and C. violaceum ATCC 12472,
black."](%7Cfilename%7C/images/Hornungetal.png)

From [Hornung et al.]() (2013) 'The *Janthinobacterium* sp. HH01 Genome
Encodes
